# Stress-on-Prokaryotic-tRNA-Usage
Relatively recent research shows that tRNAs react to environmental stressors. However, there is minimal tRNA sequencing data available to analyze the shift of tRNA usage in response to stress. Therefore, mRNA-seq data can be leveraged to predict shifts in tRNA as this data gives insight into codon expression in the organism. By analyzing changes in weighted codon counts and gene expression in Streptococcus pneumoniae under control and mild heat-shock conditions, we gain insight into how tRNA expression shifts under stress in prokaryotes.


codonMetrics.py is used to analyze the data using outputs from ProkSeq/Salmon and CDS FASTA files. The CDS FASTA file for the prokaryote must be inserted through STDIN. If a ProkSeq CPM/TPM output file is being used, use the '-ps' or '--ProkSeq' flag, and then the flag '-ctp' or '--cmpTmpFileProkseq' followed by the Prokseq comparitive file. If a Salmon TPM output file is being used, use the flag '-tc' or '--tmpControl' flag followed by the TPM Salmon output for your prokaryote in a control evironment, and use the flag '-tt' ot '--tmpTreatment' flag followed by the TPM Salmon output for your prokaryote in a stressed output. The '-gb' or '--groupedBar' flag prints a grouped bar graph. The graph will be labeled specific to Yersenia, but it can be changed in the code. The '-t' or '--topTPMdiff' flags 'prints table of genes with greatest TPM difference. The '-gcd' or '--geneCodonDisparity' flags prints table of gene that causes most disparity for each codon.
